# Traits

## [`FXOrig`][fieldx_aux::with_origin::FXOrig] {{hi:FXOrig}}

This is the trait for types that potentially know their origin. It means that these types may provide either the source syntax element, which is any type that implements the [`syn::spanned::Spanned`] trait, or the original span of the syntax element, or both. If the origin is not known, then both values would be `None`.

Regardless of whether the origin is known or not, any `FXOrig` type must be able to provide some kind of {{i:final span}}. By default, the span is the `Span::call_site()` fallback.

## [`FXHelperTrait`][`fieldx_aux::traits::FXHelperTrait`] {{hi:FXHelperTrait}}

For types that implement [{{i:helper argument}}s](../basics/terminology.md#helper-arguments). Implementation of this trait is auto-generated by the [`fxhelper`](https://docs.rs/fieldx_aux/0.2.1/fieldx_aux/attr.fxhelper.html) macro attribute. Helpers are covered [later](./helpers.md).

## [`FXSetState`][fieldx_aux::traits::FXSetState] {{hi:FXSetState}}

```admonish warning
This type name must not be read as "set some state". Instead, its meaning is "set state of a field". Blame ChatGPT for failing to find a better short name!
```

Values must implement this trait to report back their _set_/_unset_ state {{hi:set/unset state}}. For example, if a value is a simple entity without support for an `off` flag, it is acceptable for it to always report back as being set. The trait has a blanket implementation for `Option<T: FXSetState>`, which allows the _unset_ state to be reported back as soon as the value is not provided by the user.

With the `off` flag, a typical implementation of this trait looks like this:

```rust,ignore
impl FXSetState for MyType {
    fn is_set(&self) -> FXProp<bool> {
        FXProp::from(self.off).not()
    }
}
```

This way, we not only know that a functionality is disabled but also where exactly this happened.

Some cases can be more complex than the example above. Consider the `serde` argument, where setting both its `serialize` and `deserialize` arguments to `off` actually means that the `serde` argument is unset.

## [`FXFrom`][fieldx_aux::traits::FXFrom] {{hi:FXFrom}}, [`FXInto`][fieldx_aux::traits::FXInto] {{hi:FXInto}}, [`FXTryFrom`][fieldx_aux::traits::FXTryFrom] {{hi:FXTryFrom}}, and [`FXTryInto`][fieldx_aux::traits::FXTryInto] {{hi:FXTryInto}}

These mimic the standard library's [`From`][std::convert::From] and [`Into`][std::convert::Into] traits. Their purpose is to work around some cases where using the standard library's traits is not possible due to the "conflicting implementations" error.
